---
title: Extra
level: HTML&CSS 1
language: en-GB
embeds: "*.png"
materials: "code and images"
stylesheet: web
...

## Introduction { .intro}

Let's make another page and upload it to your website.

# Step 1: Start Caret { .activity}

## Activity Checklist { .check}

+ Open Google Chrome.
+ Go to the [Chrome Web Store](https://chrome.google.com/webstore) (chrome.google.com/webstore) and, if you haven't already, install Caret.
+ Launch Caret.

# Step 2: Make a page { .activity .new-page}

## Activity Checklist { .check}

+ Every Web page needs the same basic tags. Paste the following into Caret:
```{.language-markup}
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
	<head>
	</head>
	<body>
	</body>
</html>
```

+ Add a title and a heading or two. The title goes in the head section of the page, whereas the headings go in the body section. Change the text to whatever you want. Your Web page will look something like:
```{.language-markup}
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
	<head>
        <title>My Web page</title>
	</head>
	<body>
        <h1>My Web page</h1>
        <h2>My hobbies</h2>
	</body>
</html>
```

+ Save your new page as `page.html` by going to the `File` menu and choosing `Save File`.
+ Open a new tab in Google Chrome and then press `Ctrl+o` and find and open `page.html`.

# Step 3: Putting your web page on the Web { .activity .new-page}

Now you have made your own page, you should show it off. You need to upload your page to the Highover Code Club server.

## Activity Checklist { .check}

+ Go to `webftp.dreamhost.com`.
+ Enter `highovercodeclub.org.uk` in the Host box.
+ Enter your username (which begins with `highover`) in the Login box.
+ Enter your password.
+ Click the green tick button.
+ Under `My Workspaces`, double click on `FTP Host`.
+ You will then see all the folders and files on the server.
+ Double click on the `www` folder, which is where your Web page should go.
+ Click on the Send button to upload a file from your computer to the server.
+ Once uploaded, you can visit your website at `www.highovercodeclub.org.uk`.

# Step 4: Adding to your page { .activity .new-page}

Now you can add some more content to your page.

## Activity Checklist { .check}

+ Add a paragraph to your page. Make sure you put it in the body section, which is where all the content goes.
```{.language-markup}
<p>This is a really interesting sentence that I hope you all read.</p>
```

+ Add a list to your page. Again, it must go in the body section.
```{.language-markup}
<p>These are some of my favourite things:</p>
<ul>
    <li>Scratch</li>
    <li>HTML</li>
    <li>Arsenal</li>
</ul>
```

+ Add a link to the Highover Code Club website to your page.
```{.language-markup}
<p>I'm a member of <a href="http://www.highovercodeclub.org.uk/">Highover Code Club</a>.</p>
```
Note that `href` is an __attribute__ of the `<a>` tag. Attributes appear within an opening tag and then are followed by an equals sign and then a value in quotes. In this case the value is `http://www.highovercodeclub.org.uk/`.

+ Save your page and then upload it to the server and look at the new version, as you did in step 3.

## Things to try { .try}

* Make a second page in Caret and save it as `page2.html`. Upload `page2.html` to the server.
* Add a link to `page.html`, like this:
```{.language-markup}
<p>Here's my <a href="page2.html">second page</a>.</p>
```

* Save `page.html` and upload it to the server.
* Go to your website and check that the link works.
